README.md, before:

Workshop 1: Bluemix, IoT, & Raspberry Pi
================================

Objective:
===========

The purpose of this workshop is to get you started working with Bluemix,
Node-RED, Watson IoT, and a Raspberry Pi. You will be defining a
Raspberry Pi as an IoT device in the Watson IoT service. Following that,
you will use Node-RED to create an application on the Pi that reports
sensor information (temperature, humidity, barometric pressure, etc.) to
another Node-RED application running on Bluemix. Two sets of
instructions are provided. If you have prior experience and would like
to try and complete the exercise on your own, follow the Jedi Master
path. Otherwise, if you prefer a more guided approach, choose the Jedi
Padowan path. Choose wisely and have fun.

### Total time to complete: 1.5 - 2 Hours

I. Create an Internet of Things Platform service

II. Define the Raspberry Pi device to the IoT service

III. Create a Db2 Warehouse on Cloud service

IV. Create a Db2 Warehouse table for environment data

V. Create a Bluemix Node-RED Application space

VI. Create the Raspberry Pi Node-RED flows

VII. Create the Bluemix Node-RED flows

VIII. Deploy and validate success

Prerequisites:
==============

• You must have a [Bluemix account](https://www.bluemix.net).

• You must have an instance of the [Internet of Things Platform service](https://console.bluemix.net/catalog/services/internet-of-things-platform).

• You must have an instance of the [Db2 Warehouse on Cloud service](https://console.bluemix.net/catalog/services/dashdb).

• You must have a Raspberry Pi and a Sense HAT.

• You must be able to connect to your Raspberry Pi on a network and you need to know it’s ip address.

• You should have an SSH terminal program for connecting to the Raspberry Pi. If you are using a MacOS or Linux system, you are ready. If you are using a Windows system, install the PuTTY application, which is available at http://www.putty.org Software installer.

Full Instructions are found in the file:
[Workshop1-RaspberryPi-and-IoT.pdf](Workshop1-RaspberryPi-and-IoT.pdf)

Commit message:

add node-red update prereq

README.md, after:

Workshop 1: Bluemix, IoT, & Raspberry Pi
================================

Objective:
===========

The purpose of this workshop is to get you started working with Bluemix,
Node-RED, Watson IoT, and a Raspberry Pi. You will be defining a
Raspberry Pi as an IoT device in the Watson IoT service. Following that,
you will use Node-RED to create an application on the Pi that reports
sensor information (temperature, humidity, barometric pressure, etc.) to
another Node-RED application running on Bluemix. Two sets of
instructions are provided. If you have prior experience and would like
to try and complete the exercise on your own, follow the Jedi Master
path. Otherwise, if you prefer a more guided approach, choose the Jedi
Padowan path. Choose wisely and have fun.

### Total time to complete: 1.5 - 2 Hours

I. Create an Internet of Things Platform service

II. Define the Raspberry Pi device to the IoT service

III. Create a Db2 Warehouse on Cloud service

IV. Create a Db2 Warehouse table for environment data

V. Create a Bluemix Node-RED Application space

VI. Create the Raspberry Pi Node-RED flows

VII. Create the Bluemix Node-RED flows

VIII. Deploy and validate success

Prerequisites:
==============

• You must have a [Bluemix account](https://www.bluemix.net).

• You must have an instance of the [Internet of Things Platform service](https://console.bluemix.net/catalog/services/internet-of-things-platform).

• You must have an instance of the [Db2 Warehouse on Cloud service](https://console.bluemix.net/catalog/services/dashdb).

• You must have a Raspberry Pi and a Sense HAT.

• You must be able to connect to your Raspberry Pi on a network and you need to know it’s ip address.

• The Node.js and Node-Red on the Raspberry Pi must be updated by running the command: update-nodejs-and-nodered in a terminal on the Raspberry Pi.

• You should have an SSH terminal program for connecting to the Raspberry Pi. If you are using a MacOS or Linux system, you are ready. If you are using a Windows system, install the PuTTY application, which is available at http://www.putty.org Software installer.

Full Instructions are found in the file:
[Workshop1-RaspberryPi-and-IoT.pdf](Workshop1-RaspberryPi-and-IoT.pdf)
